---
title: Exploring UI generation
description: Learn about how AI-generated UI experiences can empower developers building on the ServiceNow AI Platform.
locale: en-US
release: yokohama
topic_type: concept
last_updated: "2025-01-30"
reading_time_minutes: 1
breadcrumb: [UI generation, Builder library, Developing your application, Building applications]
---

# Exploring UI generation

Learn about how AI-generated UI experiences can empower developers building on the ServiceNow AI Platform.

## UI generation overview

Now Assist for Creator activates the UI generation skill. With UI generation, you provide text describing the UI experience and AI-powered Now Assist can get it started for you. Users with varying levels of experience can benefit from using UI generation to get started building experiences more efficiently.

## UI generation workflow

To generate a UI experience, you describe the table, chart type, and navigation your users will be working with. For best results, include as much detail as possible.

1.  The developer describes the desired experience and triggers UI generation.
2.  The developer reviews the AI-Generated experience and either accepts or rejects it.
    -   If the developer accepts it, the experience is saved and the developer can begin working with the experience.
    -   If the developer rejects it, the experience is not saved, and the developer can make changes to the experience description to achieve the desired outcome.

## UI generation benefits

|Benefit|Feature|Users|
|-------|-------|-----|
|Improve the quality of UI experiences, automate repetitive experience building tasks, and reduce time spent searching for or recalling experience structure.|[UI generation](../task/generate-ui.md)|Developers|
|Identify experiences generated by AI| |Developers, administrators|

## Client script summarization overview

Now Assist for Creator activates the client script summarization skill within the UI Builder. This skill provides you with both a high-level summary and a detailed explanation of a client script.

## Client script summarization workflow

1.  The developer logs into a instance.
2.  The developer navigates to **All** &gt; **Now Experience Framework** &gt; **UI Builder** &gt; **.**
3.  The developer opens an experience with a client script.
4.  The developer then clicks on one of the pages to open the page editor.
5.  From the **Data and scripts** panel, the developer opens a client script.

    The Explain Code panel appears if you have the now.assist.creator role and have enabled the Client script summarization skill.

6.  The developer selects **Explain this code**.

    A concise summary, along with a detailed explanation of the script's functionality, is displayed.

7.  If the developer makes any changes to the script, a message in the **Explain code panel** notifies them of the update and asks whether the code should be explained again.

    The developer must select **Explain again** to generate a new summary.


