---
title: Using Now Assist for Strategic Portfolio Management \(SPM\)
description: With the Now Assist for Strategic Portfolio Management \(SPM\) application, you can summarize feedback, create demands, generate document summaries, and refine planning item descriptions for clarity and alignment. You can also quickly produce and share project insights via email and use the AI agents to monitor project tasks autonomously.
locale: en-US
release: yokohama
product: Now Assist for Strategic Portfolio Management \(SPM\)
classification: now-assist-for-strategic-portfolio-management-spm
topic_type: concept
last_updated: "2025-07-31"
reading_time_minutes: 3
breadcrumb: [Now Assist for Strategic Portfolio Management \(SPM\), Strategic Portfolio Management]
---

# Using Now Assist for Strategic Portfolio Management \(SPM\)

With the Now Assist for Strategic Portfolio Management \(SPM\) application, you can summarize feedback, create demands, generate document summaries, and refine planning item descriptions for clarity and alignment. You can also quickly produce and share project insights via email and use the AI agents to monitor project tasks autonomously.

-   **[Summarize the feedback by using Now Assist for Strategic Portfolio Management \(SPM\)](../task/feedback-summary-sentiment-topics.md)**  
Generate a summary from the name and description of the feedback records so that you can analyze a large volume of feedback quickly without reading each feedback record manually. You can do this task by using the multi feedback summarization skill in the Now Assist for Strategic Portfolio Management \(SPM\) application.
-   **[Create demands by using the conversational experience](../task/demand-creation-using-now-assist.md)**  
Use the conversational experience of Now Assist in Virtual Agent to create a demand from any application that supports Virtual Agent.
-   **[Identify similar records using Now Assist for Strategic Portfolio Management \(SPM\)](../task/identify-similar-demand-records.md)**  
Detect similar demand records using the identify similar records Now Assist skill. The skill detects similar demand records based on contextual similarity in the name, description, and business case content.
-   **[Generate targets for a goal in Strategic Planning Workspace using Now Assist for SPM](../task/generate-targets-for-goal.md)**  
Generate measurable targets for your goals in Strategic Planning Workspace using Now Assist for SPM.
-   **[Generate stories for work items in EAP using Now Assist for SPM](../task/generate-stories-from-epics-now-assist-eap.md)**  
Breakdown epics and features into stories using the Now Assist panel in the Enterprise Agile Planning \(EAP\) workspace. Based on the work item details, Now Assist generates stories.
-   **[Generate acceptance criteria for EAP stories using Now Assist for Strategic Portfolio Management \(SPM\)](../task/eap-generate-acceptance-criteria-for-stories.md)**  
Create clear, comprehensive, and testable acceptance criteria for user stories without writing them manually in Enterprise Agile Planning \(EAP\). Review and refine suggested options to ensure they meet your requirements.
-   **[Generate acceptance criteria for stories in Agile Development 2.0](../task/generate-acc-criteria-agile-stories-now-assist.md)**  
Create clear, comprehensive, and testable acceptance criteria for user stories without writing them manually in Agile Development 2.0. Review and refine suggested options to ensure they meet your requirements.
-   **[Generate and improve Docs content with Now Assist for Strategic Portfolio Management \(SPM\)](../task/generate-summarize-and-refine-content-of-docs-with-now-assist-spm.md)**  
Generate content with Now Assist for SPM directly in your Docs using custom prompts. In addition, summarize existing sections, elaborate where needed, and refine drafts to help improve your productivity.
-   **[Summarize and refine Docs content in EAP using Now Assist for SPM](../../spw-eap/task/summarize-and-refine-docs-content-in-eap.md)**  
Use Now Assist capabilities to elaborate, shorten, and summarize selected content in Docs, or to get a summary of the whole document in Enterprise Agile Planning \(EAP\).
-   **[Generate the summary for selected or complete content with Planning item doc summarization skill in Strategic Planning](../task/summarize-documents-genai-skill-spw.md)**  
Quickly learn the details of the documents from the summary that is generated by Now Assist in Strategic Planning.
-   **[Generate the summary for selected or complete content with Project doc summarization skill in Project Workspace](../task/summarize-doc-content-genai-skill-pw.md)**  
Quickly learn the details of the documents from the summary that is generated by in Project Workspace.
-   **[Schedule the project summary email](../task/email-project-summary-skill-pw.md)**  
Schedule the project summary email to prioritize and track the most important changes in the project in Project Workspace.
-   **[Improve efficiency and quality using refine records skill with Now Assist Context Menu](../task/refine-text-with-write-planning-item-skill.md)**  
Improve record quality by enabling AI-assisted text refinement in the text fields of Product idea, Demands, Epic, Projects, Capability, Features, Stories, Project tasks, Risks, Strategic priorities, Goals, Targets, Initiatives, Feedback, Milestones, and Story forms.

**Parent Topic:**[Now Assist for Strategic Portfolio Management \(SPM\)](now-assist-spm.md)

**Related topics**  


[Using AI agent or agentic workflows in Now Assist for Strategic Portfolio Management \(SPM\)](using-na-spm-ai-agents.md)

